Sentry Ruby 4.0 (#2725)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/ruby/common/migration.mdx

---
title: Migration Guide
sidebar_order: 1000
description: "Learn about how to migrate from the deprecated sentry-raven SDK."
---
## Benefits

> #### Unified Interfaces With Other SDKs
> 
> The design of `sentry-raven` is outdated compare with other Sentry SDKs. If you also use other sentry SDKs, like `sentry-javascript` for your frontend application, you'll notice that their interfaces are quite different from `sentry-raven`'s. So one of the purposes of the new `sentry-ruby` SDK is to provide a consistent user experience across all different platforms.
> 
> #### Performance Monitoring
> 
> The `sentry-ruby` SDK comes with the new [performance monitoring](https://docs.sentry.io/product/performance/) feature ([document](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/ruby/performance)).
> 
> #### Future Support
> 
> The `sentry-raven` SDK has entered maintenance mode, which means it won't receive any new feature supports or aggressive bug fixes.
> 
> #### Better Extensibility
> 
> Unlike `sentry-raven`, `sentry-ruby` is built with extensibility in mind and will allow the community to build extensions for different integrations/features.

Reviewer: A bulleted list makes this easier to ready
```suggestion
- **Unified Interfaces With Other SDKs:** The design of `sentry-raven` is outdated compared with our modern Sentry SDKs. If you also use other Sentry SDKs, such as Sentry's JavaScript SDK for your frontend application, you'll notice that their interfaces are quite different from the one provided for `sentry-raven`. The new `sentry-ruby` SDK provides a more consistent user experience across all different platforms.
- **Performance Monitoring:** The Sentry Ruby SDK includes [performance monitoring](https://docs.sentry.io/product/performance/), which you can enable if you haven't already as ([discussed here](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/ruby/performance/)). 
- **Future Support:** `sentry-raven` has entered maintenance mode, which means it won't receive any new feature supports or aggressive bug fixes.
- **Better Extensibility:** Unlike `sentry-raven`, `sentry-ruby` is built with extensibility in mind and will allow the community to build extensions for different integrations/features.
```

## Major Changes

> #### Ruby 2.3 & Rails 4 are not supported anymore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note>

Ruby 2.3 and Rails 4 are no longer supported.

</Note>
```

> #### Integrations were extracted into their own gems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Integrations Were Extracted
```

> `sentry-ruby` still supports integration with `Rack` by providing a built-in middleware. But for integrations with `Rails`, `sidekiq`, and other libraries, you'll need to install gems for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry's Ruby SDK still supports integration with `Rack` by providing built-in middleware, but you'll need to install gems for integrations with `Rails`, `sidekiq`, and other libraries.
```

Currently available integrations are:
- [sentry-rails](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-ruby/tree/master/sentry-rails)
- [sentry-sidekiq](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-ruby/tree/master/sentry-sidekiq)

> We'll also support these in the near future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll also support these in the near future:
```

- delayed_jobs
- resque

> #### Processors were removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Removed Processors
```

> In `sentry-raven` we have different processor classes for data scrubbing. But in `sentry-ruby` we don't support them anymore (just like other SDKs).
> 
> To protect users' sensitive data, `sentry-ruby` added a new config option called `send_default_pii`. When its value is `false` (default), sensitive information like
> 
> - user ip
> - user cookie
> - request body
> 
> will **not** be sent to Sentry.
> 
> You can re-enable it by setting:
> 
> ```ruby
> config.send_default_pii = true
> ```
> 
> As for scrubbing sensitive data, please use Sentry's [Advanced Data Scrubbing](https://docs.sentry.io/product/data-management-settings/advanced-datascrubbing/) feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `sentry-raven` we have different processor classes for data scrubbing. But updated Sentry Ruby SDK doesn't support these processors. Instead, to protect users' sensitive data, the Ruby SDK adds a new configuration option of `send_default_pii`. When the value is set to `false` (default), sensitive information, such as 

- user ip
- user cookie
- request body

will **not** be sent to Sentry.

You can re-enable it by setting:

```ruby
config.send_default_pii = true
```

For more information about scrubbing sensitive data, please use Sentry's [Advanced Data Scrubbing](https://docs.sentry.io/product/data-management-settings/advanced-datascrubbing/) feature.
```

> #### New components & structure

Reviewer: Please use title case and avoid ampersands
```suggestion
#### New Components and Structure
```

> Like other Sentry SDKs, `sentry-ruby` now has a unified structure, which introduced 2 new components: `Hub` and `Scope` ([document](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/ruby/enriching-events/scopes/)). Most users won't interact with `Hub` directly but will need `Scope` to configure contextual data. See the next paragraph for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Senty's Ruby SDK uses a unified structure, which introduces two new components: `Hub` and `Scope` ([which are both documented here](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/ruby/enriching-events/scopes/)). Most users won't interact with `Hub` directly, but will need `Scope` to configure contextual data.
```

> #### Context interfaces changed

Reviewer: title case
```suggestion
#### Context Interfaces Changed
```

> In `sentry-raven`, we provided helpers like `Raven.user_context` for setting contextual data. But in `sentry-ruby`, those helpers were removed, and you'll need to use a different approach for setting those data like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `sentry-raven`, we provided helpers like `Raven.user_context` for setting contextual data. In our updated Ruby SDK, those helpers were removed, and you'll need to use a different approach for setting those data:
```

> ##### Configure data globally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure data globally
```

```ruby
# Before
Raven.user_context(id: 1)

# After
Sentry.set_user(id: 1)
```

> ##### Configure data in a local scope

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure data in a local scope
```

```ruby
# Before
Raven.tag_context(foo: "bar") do
  Raven.capture_message("test")
end

# After
Sentry.with_scope do |scope|
  scope.set_user(id: 1)

  Sentry.capture_message("test")
end
```

> ## Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example Migration
```

> This section will use code examples to guide you through the changes required for the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we provide code examples to guide you through the changes required for the migration.
```
